---
layout: post
title: "conflict"
description: "Handling others in a productive way"
category: cultural
tags: [cultural, phase 0]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

When I was in college, I moved in with a friend of mine into an off-campus apartment the summer after my sophomore year. I thought things would go fairly well since the two of us shared a lot of friends in common, as well as general interests, and we had a decently sized apartment that we wouldn't be getting into each other's way terribly much. But as might be guessed from my writing about this, we somewhat quickly ran into some problems between the two of us.

In our apartment, we had been having some pretty major problems with our Internet and cable connections. While we paid the bill together and had decided on a company together, my roommate took point on dealing with the company and the tech, since he was a computer sciences major, while I was in the social sciences. What lead to our problem was a week or so where we didn't have Internet at all, and he spent hours struggling on the phone and dealing with the router, trying to solve the problem. He however refused to let me touch the router or try and troubleshoot on my own, saying that it was something he wanted to fix.

While he was focused more on technology in his studies, I was fairly technologically savvy as well, so I felt more than a little disrespected and frustrated that he wouldn't even let me try and work with the problem to try and solve it. There was definitely an element of him thinking that if he wasn't able to solve it, that I wouldn't be able to do it, or so it seemed. But it was just completely dismissive of something that was a shared problem for both of us to not let me try my hand at it, and I felt like I was imposing on him for even wanting to try and solve the router issues when he felt it was entirely his own responsibility to fix.

 I did end up getting a chance to try and work with it, though I don't remember if I had any luck with it myself, or how we managed to get the connection troubles solved. I do think I remember I was a bit hostile towards him for what seemed like him disrespecting me, since he wouldn't let me try and troubleshoot. I think in retrospect thats what I would've changed about the situation and would've made things easier for us during the rest of our residency at the apartment, if I hadn't taken it so personally that he wanted to solve it himself. I think that was the big concern, that he felt it was a challenge for himself alone, and that him excluding me was more a reflection of that than any disbelief in my own capabilities. Taking things less personally is something I'm trying to change about myself, and I think was the key lesson I need to take from that experience about myself.