---
layout: post
title: "values"
description: "combat against stereotype threat"
category: cultural
tags: [cultural, phase 0]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

I think a very important value to hold is the desire and drive to help others, both in terms of straight-up generosity and charity as well as by offering aid and advice. An important caveat is that you make certain that its wanted and desired aid that you'd be offering, and that your assistance isn't just wantonly and thoughtlessly imposing your views on others. But it leads to social improvement and a greater quality of life if we look to see how we can aid each other, and how we can be open with each other about what we might be able to do for one another.

This comes across fairly often with DBC, though I imagine I could be doing more with it than I am. I'm almost always willing to help people with their coding projects and in thinking up alternative techniques and workarounds for their problems and questions, but my big concern is that they are actually looking for advice and help on their project. I don't want to be telling them that they're doing things in a less optimal way or that they're totally missing the boat, because a) that isn't helpful and b) ruins the social cohesion. So I try to make myself available as a resource to be turned to, not a broadcast of my views and style.

Going off that, while I understand where the blog assignment wants us to go into detail about our values and our exercises, this isn't something I feel comfortable going into. I have a hard enough time managing my values and affirming myself in my everyday life that I don't think I can say anything useful or not absolutely personal in a blog post. It just makes me feel severely uncomfortable to think about exposing all that.